# HashiCorp - Consul
Before we start to explain the Consul software, it would be useful to talk about some concepts. By talking about these concepts, we will provide a better understanding of Consul. We will briefly talk about concepts such as monolith and microservice architectures, proxy, service mesh, service discovery and service registry.
# Monolith and Microservice Architectures
Monolith and microservice concepts are application architectures and ways of doing business. If we talk briefly about the differences between the two; In monolith architecture, every module of the application (shipping, order, payment, registration, etc.) is found together as a whole. In microservice architecture, each module is located separately. In order to embody this, we can make an analogy when you keep your childhood photos, high school photos, university graduation photos and all the photos you have with your family in a single folder, and if you group these photos into separate folders and store them, you will compare them to microservice architecture. In microservice architecture, since the modules are independent of each other, we have the chance to scale the high-traffic modules alone. However, in a monolith architecture, if a part of our application needs scaling, we have to scale the whole of it.
## What is Service Mesh?
It is an infrastructure that enables microservices to communicate with each other. In the absence of service mesh, these communications are specified by coding in the relevant microservice. This means additional development costs, increases complexity and increases the time to resolve the problem in error situations in microservices. Service mesh prevents these and takes over the communication process of the services and provides easy manageability.
## What is Service Discovery and Service Registry?
In order for the services in the microservice architecture to communicate with each other, each service needs an IP address. Each service receives requests over its own IP. However, services in microservice architecture are not static, they exist dynamically. For example, a new service is created immediately instead of a failed service, or when it receives high traffic, it scales and the number of instances increases. For these reasons, the IP address of the service changes. Thanks to the service registry, we keep the record of the running instances, every instance that is running is registered with the service registry and it is checked periodically whether this instance is alive or not. If an instance becomes inoperable or closed, it is deleted from the service registry. Service discovery is the process of customers discovering services from the service registry.

